And let's talk about type parameters.
So here's an example of
a method on a string.
So this is the pop method.
And what pop does is it says take one
character off the end of the string and
just return it.
So I'm gonna say last char = mystring.pop.
Remember we talked about chars earlier,
that's that type.
That's basically the same
thing as a u32 but
it's validated to be a valid
unicode scalar value.
So just like, hey, just pop the public
character off of my string.
Now in some languages,
this might be the type of last char,
as it might have actually the type char.
In other words, when I call pop on my
string, it's gonna give me back a char.
Well, here's the problem.
What if it's an empty string?
What if my string is actually
has no characters in it?
I'm calling pop on it,
then what would this be?
Well, in a lot of languages that might
come back as null or nil or undefined or
something like that, but
Rust doesn't have those things.
So what does it do?
Well, one option is it could panic,
but as it happens, it doesn't panic.
It does something a little
bit more useful than that.
So here's what it actually does.
Pop returns an option, bracket char.
So what does that, let's talk about that.
So option is an enum and
its definition looks like this.
It's enum option bracket T, and
then it's two variants or none,
and then some parentheses T.
This being the tuple syntax for
having a payload.
So either it's got none,
or it's got some and
then this T type that's wrapped up
inside as a payload to the some variant.
So what is T?
Well, T could be anything.
It's what's called a type parameter.
I could have actually chosen
any name I wanted for this.
I happen to choose T but
I could have chosen B or X or
food or hamburger, anything you want.
The point is when you define it
inside these angle brackets,
whatever name you choose there,
you're now free to use inside of your
variants in your enum definition.
And as you may have noticed,
there's more angle brackets here when I'm
actually making one of
these option things.
So because I put angle
brackets here the definition,
whenever you're actually using this thing,
you need to specify exactly what T is.
So in this particular example, T is char.
But as we'll C,
T can be any type you want.
So for example, here's using T
being string rather than char.
So I could say let email:
Option<string> = Some (email_str) which
has the type string.
Now here, this is an example of my
creating an option from scratch.
Now you may be wondering why didn't
I put option colon colon some here.
And the answer there is that
option is actually special.
This is built into the standard library
and you don't actually have to namespace
it basically because it
comes up really often.
There's a lot of functions
that involve option types.
And Rust didn't want you to have to write
out option colon colon all the time.
So basically, just made it so
you can just say some or none and
not have to do any name spacing for those.
So the other thing we could do is we
could set it equal to none either
of those is totally fine, okay.
So a related type is result.
So result is similar to option
except that instead of representing
the possible absence of a value,
result represents the possible
an operation that could have failed.
So here we have an okay variant,
in which case, it wraps up the okay.
That's why the O type parameter,
or we have an error variant,
in which case it has a payload
of E type parameter.
So there's two type parameters
here rather than one.
You can have as many type
parameters as you want in a type.
So here's an example of using that.
I might say let success is result
of i64 string equals okay 42, or
failure of i64 string it was error and
then some error string.
So this would be basically I would use
this in a situation where I'm gonna
run some sort of operation and
either it will succeed in which case
if it succeeded, I'll get back in i64.
Or that operation might fail and
if it failed,
it's gonna give me a string
describing what went wrong.
Keep in mind that this error
type could be anything you want.
Maybe in fact, a pretty common thing that
people will do is they'll actually have
an enum that enumerates all the different
things that could go wrong.
And then that will be what
comes back as your error type.
If you don't have an error type,
you could just put unit there.
Or if you want, that is to say if there's
no additional error information that you
wanna have there,
you could put unit for this error type.
Or it's quite common instead to
use option rather than results.
Either one's totally fine.
Much like with option, the result colon
colon prefix is also optional for
result because again result
comes up all the time.
Results and option both are very common
use not just in the Rust standard library
but also in the whole Rust ecosystem.
They're the only two enums that work
this way are result and option but
everywhere else you do need to
actually put that prefix on there.